# Food-wastage
The issue of Food waste has always been a big issue in Singapore, however one key area of it is the wastage occurring in supermarkets in Singapore.
Every day, tons of food waste are produced from supermarkets in Singapore especially from fresh produce and products in general. It’s an issue occurring all over the island and is especially prevalent at the end of each day when food which cannot be kept till the next day is dumped. Over the years, although the amount of food waste disposed and it’s corresponding recycling has gradually decreased and increased respectively[1], it’s still insufficient. For Singapore which has limited land and low food production output in general, majority of its food is imported, this makes its over reliant on supply chains which it may be out of its reach [2]. Thus, Food security and by extension, the massive amounts of food wasted daily is a key problem which was further emphasized during the recent covid crisis where our food supply was called into question when borders were closed and supply chains all around the world disrupted. There have been past efforts taken by both organisations and individuals to help deal with the problem such as setting up food charities or food banks to divert the food which would have otherwise been wasted in supermarkets to the needy in Singapore. This not only serves to reduce food waste but also help to reduce the issue of food security by targeting the more vulnerable in Singapore. However due to the nature of being a food bank and having to store food before redistributing them, it only helps reduce food waste to a small extent covering mainly canned and other food items which have longer shelf lifespans. Other solutions done in the past were to convert food waste such as bread into other products with greater longevity such as producing beer [3]. Bread especially those already baked is one item which has a short lifespan and hard to donate to food banks or charities due to how fast they spoil, this initiative helps to salvage the possible bread wasted daily and converting it into beer. However, this initiative mainly targets bread as most items cannot be converted to beer in the first place cause this initiative to be small in scale and not as effective or have wide of an impact as food banks/charities. One major cause of food wastage is the bad connotation associated with blemished products. Some major supermarket chains such as FairPrice have also conducted sales for fresh products like blemished fruits and vegetables at lower prices under its "Great Taste, Less Waste" initiative [4]. This is able to complement other initiatives as it targets one of the root causes of food wastage and affects mainly fresh produce which is harder to keep and give to food banks/charities. Although it has shown some positive signs of reducing food waste, social stigmas are hard to change and there’s still large amounts of such blemished items disposed of or wasted daily. Ultimately, food wastage in supermarkets in Singapore is a longstanding issue and due to the wide variety of products, many solutions in the past each only managed to target part of the problem. There is a need to complement all of them and fill up the remaining gaps in order to deal with the problem effectively.
In Conclusion, the various solutions in the past are not effective or far-reaching in scope to deal with food wastage in supermarkets completely.
